Add a help page for installing Flutter (#8715)
flutter/website: src/get-started/install/help.md

---
title: Install help
description: This page describes some common installation issues new Flutter users have run into and offers suggestions to resolve them.
---

This page describes some common installation issues new Flutter users have run
into and offers suggestions to resolve them. Included at the bottom of the page
is a list of [community support channels][] you can reach out to if you don’t
find answers from this page. To add a topic to this page or make a correct, you
may file an issue or a pull request using the buttons at the top of the doc.

## Get the Flutter SDK

### Unable to find the `flutter` command

__What does this issue look like?__

When you try to run the `flutter` command, the console fails to find it. On

> Windows, the error usually looks like this:

Author: @sfshaza2 The error message is Windows specific, should we keep "On Windows" from the original text?

> Windows, the error usually looks like this:

Reviewer: Well, the error exists on either platform: Windows or Unix. The error text does vary a bit, of course, but it's a pretty minor nit. We usually provide Unix errors and often don't bother to even include the Windows version. Any way, maybe I'm not the best person to address this, but it seems very minor. It would be more important if the error were ONLY on Windows or ONLY on Unix.

> Windows, the error usually looks like this:

Author: I adopted your suggestion and added a line below the error message to point out it might look slightly different on macOS and Linux. PTAL.

```
'flutter' is not recognized as an internal or external command operable program or batch file
```

__Explanation and suggestions__

You might have missed steps to add Flutter to the PATH environment variable. On
Windows, you can follow the process demonstrated in [this
video](https://youtu.be/0SRvmcsRu2w?t=137). 

If you’ve already [set up VS Code][set up VS Code] for Flutter development, you
can use the Flutter extension’s “Locate SDK” prompt to identify the location of

> your `flutter` folder.

Author: @sfshaza2 The link you suggested takes me to a Google Search results page. Is there a specific page you'd like me to take a look at? 

The YouTube video is not ideal, but I linked to a specific segment of it about setting up path. It takes a little over 1 minute to watch that segment (1:37 to 2:45). The main benefit of showing this in a video is to make it easier to find the specific menus and windows.

> your `flutter` folder.

Reviewer: Full disclosure: I think you'll find that I am NOT a fan of video learning in this sort of situation. I don't want to watch a video (and I didn't love the pacing or quality of that video). I'm impatient to fix the problem and move on and the results in the Google search link tell me how to do that very succinctly. The person who clicks that link and sees a 10-minute video doesn't KNOW that they don't have to watch the whole thing.

> your `flutter` folder.

Author: Okay, I droped the video link and replaced it with a link to this guide: https://www.wikihow.com/Change-the-PATH-Environment-Variable-on-Windows. My main goal is to show screenshots and that webpage serves the purpose.

See also: [Configuring PATH and Environment Variables - Dart Code][config path]

### Flutter in special folders

__What does this issue look like?__

When you try to run your Flutter project, you get an error message like this: 

```
The Flutter SDK is installed in a protected folder and may not function correctly.
Please move the SDK to a location that is user-writable without Administration permissions and restart.
```

__Explanation and Suggestions__

On Windows, this usually happens when Flutter is installed in a directory like
`C:\Program Files\` that requires elevated privileges. Try relocating flutter to

> a different folder such as `C:\src\flutter`.

Author: This error is Windows specific, should we keep "On Windows"?

> a different folder such as `C:\src\flutter`.

Author: I'm resolving this since it's an issue that only affects Windows.

## Android setup

### Having multiple versions of Java installed

__What does this issue look like?__ 

The command `flutter doctor --android-licenses` fails. When you run `flutter
doctor –verbose` you see an error message like this:

```
java.lang.UnsupportedClassVersionError: com/android/prefs/AndroidLocationsProvider 
has been compiled by a more recent version of the Java Runtime (class file version 55.0), 
this version of the Java Runtime only recognizes class file versions up to 52.0
```

__Explanation and suggestions__

The error occurs when an older version of Java Development Kit (JDK) is
installed on your computer. 

> If you don’t need multiple versions of Java, uninstall existing JDKs from your
> computer. Flutter will automatically use the JDK included in Android Studio. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don’t need multiple versions of Java,
uninstall existing JDKs from your computer.
Flutter will automatically use the JDK included in Android Studio. 
```

> If you do need another version of Java, try the workaround described in [this
> Github issue][java binary path] until a long-term solution is implemented. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do need another version of Java,
try the workaround described in [this GitHub issue][java binary path]
until a long-term solution is implemented.
For more information,
check out the [Android Java Gradle migration guide][]
or [flutter doctor --android-licenses not working due to
    java.lang.UnsupportedClassVersionError - Stack Overflow][so java version].
```

> See also: [flutter doctor --android-licenses not working due to
>     java.lang.UnsupportedClassVersionError - Stack Overflow][so java version]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### `cmdline-tools` component is missing

__What does this issue look like?__

> `flutter doctor` complains about “Android toolchain” and specifically missing
> the cmdline-tools component. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `flutter doctor` command complains that the
`cmdline-tools` are missing from the Android toolchain.
For example:

```

```
[!] Android toolchain - develop for Android devices (Android SDK version 33.0.2) 
    • Android SDK at C:\Users\My PC\AppData\Local\Android\sdk 
    X cmdline-tools component is missing 
```

__Explanation and suggestions__

> The easiest way you get cmdline-tools is through the SDK Manager in Android
> Studio. To open the SDK Manager from Android Studio, click **Tools > SDK
> Manager** from the menu bar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to get the cmdline-tools is through the
SDK Manager in Android Studio.
To do this, use the following instructions:
```

> 
> *   Select the latest Android SDK (or a specific version your app requires),
>     Android SDK Command-line Tools, and Android SDK Build-Tools. 
> *   Click the **Apply** button to have the selected artifacts installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Open the SDK Manager from Android Studio,
    by selecting **Tools > SDK Manager** from the menu bar.
2. Select the latest Android SDK (or a specific version that your app requires),
    Android SDK Command-line Tools, and Android SDK Build-Tools. 
3. Click **Apply** to install the selected artifacts.
```

![Android Studio SDK
Manager](/assets/images/docs/get-started/install_android_tools.png)

> If you're not using Android Studio, you can download tools using the
> [sdkmanager][sdkmanager] command-line tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not using Android Studio,
you can download the tools using the
[sdkmanager][] command-line tool.
```

## Other problems

### Exit code 69

__What does this issue look like?__

> After running a `flutter` command, you get an error with “exit code: 69” as
> shown in the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running a `flutter` command produces an “exit code: 69” error,
as shown in the following example:
```

```
Running "flutter pub get" in flutter_tools...
Resolving dependencies in .../flutter/packages/flutter_tools... (28.0s)
Got TLS error trying to find package test at https://pub.dev/.
pub get failed
command:
".../flutter/bin/cache/dart-sdk/bin/
dart __deprecated_pub --color --directory
.../flutter/packages/flutter_tools get --example"
pub env: {
  "FLUTTER_ROOT": ".../flutter",
  "PUB_ENVIRONMENT": "flutter_cli:get",
  "PUB_CACHE": ".../.pub-cache",
}
exit code: 69
```

__Explanation and suggestions__

> The issue is related to networking. Here are a few things you can try to
> troubleshoot this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issue is related to networking. 
Try the following instructions to troubleshoot: 
```

> *   Check your internet connection. Make sure that you are connected to the
>     internet and that your connection is stable.
> *   Restart your devices, including your computer and networking equipment.
> *   Use a VPN. A VPN can help to bypass any restrictions that may be preventing
>     you from connecting to the network.
> *   If you have tried all of these steps and you are still getting the error,
> print out verbose logs with the `flutter doctor -v` command and ask for help in
> one of the [community support channels][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Check your internet connection. Make sure that you are connected to the
    internet and that your connection is stable.
*   Restart your devices, including your computer and networking equipment.
*   Use a VPN to help to bypass any restrictions that might prevent
    you from connecting to the network.
*  If you have tried all of these steps and are still getting the error,
    print out verbose logs with the `flutter doctor -v` command and ask for help in
    one of the [community support channels][].
```

## Community support

The Flutter community is helpful and welcoming. If none of the above solves your
installation issue, you may consider asking for support from the following
channels:

*   [/r/flutterhelp](https://www.reddit.com/r/flutterhelp/) on Reddit
*   [/r/flutterdev](https://discord.gg/rflutterdev) on Discord. There’s an
    `install-and-setup` channel on this server. 

> *   [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/). Search answers with keywords 
> such as "[flutter] install" or post a new question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/), 
    in particular, questions tagged with [#flutter][] or [#dart][].
```

To be respectful to everyone’s time, try to search the archive for a similar
issue first before you post a new one. 

> [community support channels]: #community-support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Android Java Gradle migration guide]: {{site.url}}/release/breaking-changes/android-java-gradle-migration-guide
[community support channels]: #community-support
```

> [java binary path]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/106416#issuecomment-1522198064

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[java binary path]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/106416#issuecomment-1522198064
```
